.\" Manpage for Complex tagging logic
.\" Contact selvat@juniper.net to correct errors or typos
.TH man 1 "17 Jun 2019"
.SH FEATURE
Complex Tags
.SH SYNOPSIS
Complex tags within Toby provide a way to use <key>:<value> pair logic in tags
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page documents the Toby complex tagging logic.  Inherently, Robot provide simple tag options (--include, --exclude).  However, there are times when it is necessary to provide key:value pair based logic with strictly defined keys.  Furthermore, there are times when the values need to support more than just tag-matching and need to be able to handle greater-than/less-than logic.  And in the most complex scenario, it is necessary to know if a JUNOS release has come in a branch after the release of the image-under-test.
.SH DEFINING Complex Tags 
The first step in using the complex tagging logic in Toby is to add the necessary tags to the Robot file.  However, instead of...
[TAGS]   abc   def
... use the more complicated assignment notation ...
[TAGS]       junos_release:19.1,18.1R2-S1

Currently, Toby only supports the complex tag 'junos_release'.  Future releases should expand upon this (model, functional area, etc.)

.nf
.B "test.robot [START]"

#(copy and paste from as needed)
# Note that even with all of the comments in this file, it is possible to copy and paste the below content and edit as needed
# -*- coding: robot -*-

*** Settings ***
Resource    jnpr/toby/Master.robot
Suite Setup   Toby Suite Setup
Suite Teardown   Toby Suite Teardown

*** Variables ***

*** Test Cases ***
testcase1
    [Documentation]    This is testcase1
    [tags]       junos_release:19.1,18.1R2-S1
    Log Console  Running testcase1

testcase2
    [Documentation]    This is testcase2
    [tags]       junos_release:17.2r3-s9
    Log Console  Running testcase2

testcase3
    [Documentation]    This is testcase3
    [tags]       junos_release:17.2r4-s1,16.1
    Log Console  Running testcase3

testcase4
    [Documentation]    This is testcase4
    Log Console  Running testcase4

testcase5
    [Documentation]    This is testcase5
    [tags]       junos_release:17.2r3-s2    abcd
    Log Console  Running testcase5

testcase6
    [Documentation]    This is testcase6
    [tags]       junos_release:17.2R3-s100
    Log Console  Running testcase6


.SH Passing complex tags to Toby
Just like any other Robot tag, use the '--include|-i' argument to pass in the release of JUNOS that represents the image-under-test
.B "Example: Target 19.2 compatible testcases only"
       toby -p topology.yaml --include junos_release:19.2 test.robot

Note that both complex and simple tags may be used together and will behave similarly to combining Robot simple tags.

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
Justin Hayes (jhayes@juniper.net)
