.\" Manpage for Toby pause/pause_on_failure feature
.\" Contact selvat@juniper.net to correct errors or typos
.TH man 1 "12 Jun 2019"
.SH FEATURE
Pause and Pause on Failure Feature
.SH SYNOPSIS
The Toby Pause & Pause on Failure feature allows users to debug toby script at time of failure while developing toby script
.SH DESCRIPTION
This page documents the Toby Pause & Pause on failure feature. This feature allows users to pause the script whenever the failure occurs and run various device commands on a given device at the time of failure to cross check whether the device is responding in a expected way or not.  This is particularly useful because it can be difficult and time consuming for engineers to try and reproduce a given issue.
.SH DEFINING PAUSE
The first step in using the pause feature is to create a yaml file to set the breakpoints at various point of failure.

.nf
.B "sample_pause_file.yaml [START]"

#(copy and paste from as needed)
# Note that even with all of the comments in this file, it is possible to copy and paste the below content and edit as needed

testcases:
     before:
         - Testcase02
         - ANY
     after:
         - Testcase01
     fail:
         - Testcase01
         - any
keywords:
     before:
         - Keyword01
     after:
         - Keyword02
         - any
     error:
         - any
     fail:
         - Keyword01
         - any

# This generic example shows a constraint where the script has to pause
.PP
.B "PAUSE USAGE"
       toby -p topology.yaml --pause sample_pause_file.yaml test.robot

.SH DEFINING PAUSE ON FAILURE
This is similar to pause feature. But user don't want to pass any yaml file. Due to that user cannot set any conditional pause. Still it would be useful to pause at any point of failure while executing a toby script during development.
.PP
.B "PAUSE ON FAILURE USAGE"
       toby -p topology.yaml --pause_on_failure test.robot

.SH SEE ALSO
toby, t, config engine, verification engine, monitoring engine
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
Selvarajan Thanabal (selvat@juniper.net)
